Add doc on how to set right cardinality limit (#2998)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-rust: docs/metrics.md

usage and predictable performance in your metrics system. The optimal limit
depends on your temporality choice and application characteristics.

Setting the limit incorrectly can have consequences:

* **Limit too high**: Due to the SDK's [memory
  preallocation](#memory-preallocation) strategy, excess memory will be
  allocated upfront and remain unused, leading to resource waste.
* **Limit too low**: Measurements will be folded into the overflow bucket
  (`{"otel.metric.overflow": true}`), losing granular attribute information and
  making attribute-based queries unreliable.

Consider these guidelines when determining the appropriate limit:

##### Choosing the Right Limit for Cumulative Temporality

Cumulative metrics retain every unique attribute combination that has *ever*
been observed since the start of the process.

* You must account for the theoretical maximum number of attribute combinations.
* This can be estimated by multiplying the number of possible values for each
  attribute.

###### Example - Fruit Sales Scenario

Attributes:

* `name` can be "apple" or "lemon" (2 values)
* `color` can be "red", "yellow", or "green" (3 values)

> You may observe up to 2 × 3 = 6 unique attribute sets.

Reviewer: It would be nice to call out the difference between theoretical max and practical max here.  It would be natural for someone reading this example to question why the limit should be 6 when we know that we would never emit metrics for a "red lemon". 

We could mention something like the simplest way is to use the theoretical max (which is the product of each attribute's cardinality), however, if you know that certain combinations of the attributes will not be valid then you can reduce that number from the limit.

Author: good callout, made a tweak to call this out.

**Set the cardinality limit to 6.**

##### Choosing the Right Limit for Delta Temporality

Delta metrics reset their aggregation state after every export interval. This
approach enables more efficient memory utilization by focusing on attributes

> observed during each interval rather than tracking all possible combinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
observed during each export interval rather than tracking all possible combinations.
```

> * For scenarios with predictable attribute combinations (as in the fruit

Reviewer: It could be "predictable" even for the `user_id` example. Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
* For scenarios with a reasonable number (<10,000) of attribute combinations (as in the fruit
```

  words, attributes used to create `Meter` or `Resource` attributes are not
  subject to this cap.

#### Cardinality Limits - How to Choose the Right Limit

Choosing the right cardinality limit is crucial for maintaining efficient memory
usage and predictable performance in your metrics system. The optimal limit
depends on your temporality choice and application characteristics.

Setting the limit incorrectly can have consequences:

* **Limit too high**: Due to the SDK's [memory
  preallocation](#memory-preallocation) strategy, excess memory will be
  allocated upfront and remain unused, leading to resource waste.
* **Limit too low**: Measurements will be folded into the overflow bucket
  (`{"otel.metric.overflow": true}`), losing granular attribute information and
  making attribute-based queries unreliable.

Consider these guidelines when determining the appropriate limit:

**1. For Cumulative Temporality:**

* Cumulative metrics retain their state across export cycles, so the total

>   cardinality equals the Cartesian product of all attribute combinations.

Reviewer: We want the count of items in the Cartesian product not the product itself.

color = {"red", "green", "yellow"}
name = { "apple", banana"}

Cartesian product = {("red", "apple"), ('green", "apple"), ...}

```suggestion
  cardinality equals the cardinality of the Cartesian product of all attribute sets.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this would be more accurate:

``so the total cardinality equals the size of the Cartesian product of all attribute combinations seen so far.``

or even simpler

``so the total cardinality equals the number of unique attribute value combinations observed so far.``

* **Example:** Using the fruit sales example, if the metric has two attributes
  (`name` with 2 possible values and `color` with 3 possible values), the total
  cardinality is `2 × 3 = 6`. The cardinality limit can hence be set to 6.

**2. For Delta Temporality:**

* Delta temporality resets aggregations after each export cycle, enabling more
  flexible cardinality management based on actual usage patterns rather than
  theoretical maximums.
* When all possible attribute combinations are known (eg: Fruit example from
  above), use the same calculation approach as cumulative temporality.
* For dynamic scenarios where not all combinations appear in every export cycle,
  base the limit on expected total measurements within a single interval.

> * **Example 1:** If your application generates at most 1,000 distinct attribute

Reviewer: How about putting the examples along with their respective scenarios?

- When all possible attribute combinations are known... Use Example1 here
- For dynamic scenarios where not all combinations appear in every export cycle, ... Use Example 2 here

Author: rewrote the section.

>   combinations per export interval (regardless of the interval duration), set

Reviewer: I think saying "per export interval regardless of the interval" makes it a bit confusing.

```suggestion
  combinations throughout the application lifetime (regardless of the export interval duration), set
```

  the cardinality limit to 1,000. Delta temporality allows the SDK to reset
  after each export, accommodating different attribute combinations across
  intervals without accumulating state.

> * **Example 2:** For web applications with known Request Per Second (RPS) rates,

Reviewer: I have some concerns about using this example. It might be confusing to people who rely on metrics to calculate RPS in the first place.

Author: removed this.
